OK, so what I did for my account was
I made a list of names that I liked, right?
So innovation was my thing.
I figured that there might be a decent amount of search
traffic for people who are looking for innovation.
I don't know, it seems like that's a pretty popular
hashtag, with a lot of different variations.
So what I kind of did is just come up
with a bunch of random names.
I just thought of things that would make sense, so I
started with the base of innovation, and then I kind
of just wondered what would make sense.
And then I just kind of listed off a bunch that I thought
might work, and I just kind of search and tried
to find out whether or not they're available.
So the top one I wanted was innovation inspiration.
So it's not short, but it rhymes and it alliterates.
So those are two different things that were kind
of nice, and it makes sense, like, if I'm posting stuff
for entrepreneurs or business professionals, it's
a good idea to say this is for inspiration, right?
That made sense to me, and then I had backups,
and the backups were kind of in the same vein,
innovation concentration, things like that.
I kind of just went to a rhyming dictionary, and if you
go to Google and type in "rhyming dictionary", you
can find all the words that rhyme.
So that's what I did, I went to Google, and through Google
I found a place called rhymezone.com, I put in
innovation and just gave me a bunch.
Innovation, agnation, causation, ablation.
I think that's when you shoot something with a laser.
Flotation, flirtation, foundation, frustration, gas station.
Anyway, so I kind of just picked ones out of here that
I thought made sense, and I tried to think of all the
things that would make sense with my
content strategy and then the name.
And so I came up with, I don't know,
four or five, or something like that.
Once you come up with some names that you think
you like, the fastest way to check to see if they're
even available is not to just go on Instagram, start
typing it in, that takes way too many clicks, actually
just go to namecheckr.com, it doesn't have an E at
the end, so make sure you get that right, and then
just type in the name, so like innovation inspiration
was one of mine, and you can see very quickly
it was taken - right there.
OK.
So I just check to see if they were free,
if they're free, then awesome.
And if they're not, well, this is the message I get,
so I know that I have to reach out to them.
Then when I did is I started looking at accounts
to see if they are active or see if they are not.
So what I did was I just started looking. What
I found was innovation inspiration right here.
OK.
It wasn't in the same language that I speak.
That was interesting. And I saw that they had seven posts,
37 followers, 23 following, doesn't look like it's active.
So I went to the last photo, looked at the bottom, it was
posted on September 8th 2015. From looking at it,
just kind of bouncing around the photos,
what I could ascertain was that this was done for a class.
It looked like there was a business school, and it
looked like it was in Denmark, because I could
go here and click on the location.
Aarhus Business College, turns out that's in Denmark.
I know nothing about Denmark.
And so maybe it made sense, like,
maybe they made this for a class,
they're not using it anymore, cool.
So what I did was I just tried to
figure out how to contact them.
I sent a message to their account, no one responded.
That happens all the time, because it's inactive, right?
So what I did then is I went to their last photo, turns
out they took photos of everyone in the class who
was in that project group, and there.
And so, at the bottom, they list it off, and I used Google
Translate figure out what they were saying, these are the
names of the people, bla bla bla, that are in these photos.
And I think then what I did was I looked at who had liked the photos, so I looked at that and go, oh, wow, there you go.
Four of these people are in this, which, again,
another good sign of this is not a serious account,
if you tag, you know, five people and the only likes
you have are four people who are in them.
So then all I did is I just went to each one and followed
them, and then I messaged them, and I out of those
four, one of them responded and
it kind of just went back and forth.
This was my number one option, so I kind of stuck with it.
I can kind of show you the conversation
we had, which wasn't great.
One strategy I tried to employ was I used my girlfriend's
account to message them, because I just kind
of figured it would make sense to use a less
threatening account, like it was a random,
what I found out from that post is they're all 19 years
old in Denmark, kind of weird if some random guy
from America messaged them,
But if, you know, a normal non-assuming looking
girl does it, they usually have a better response.
So if you have a girlfriend, try that out.
Usually you get better response rates for whatever reason.
So what I said was "Hi," whatever
her name is, "Are you currently using
this account? If not, can I use it?"
And then I tried to give them justification.
I tried to say like, I'm trying to teach a course on starting
a business and Instagram and it would be a perfect name.
Then I tried to give them some backup
saying, "You can see my stuff here."
I said like, "You can go to my website" to show that I'm
actually a public person, I'm not just some random
person who's going to take the account and sell it.
That's a big thing, it's like, if you're trying to get
someone to do something nice for you, you've got to
give them some kind of reason.
They went to business school.
I tried to connect that to business school saying I'm
teaching business classes. Then what I did is I used
Google Translate, and to the best of its
ability, we translated that into Danish.
And then we got one response, and she
responded in English, which was great.
Turns out a lot of people in Denmark speak English, great.
And basically what ended up happening was she says,
"No, we're not using it, we used it for a school project," we
kind of confirmed that.
Then she said she'll see what she can do
to deactivate the account, but no promises.
Basically then what I did is I just said, "Thank you so much,"
tried to make it sound like this is something it's
really like she's going out of her way to do this.
And other than that, I tried to, you know, make it a little more human, like, hoping that she enjoys being done with school.
I'll post this conversation in the resources so you guys
can see it. Anyway, so after that, what basically ended
up happening was that she kind of stopped responding,
it started taking longer for her to respond.
So then I messaged her kind of saying, what I thought,
what I figured out was that when you deactivate your
account, that actually takes time, and I'm not sure entirely,
and Instagram is not clear on this, whether that frees
up the name immediately.
And then also, you can't do it on the mobile phone, you
have to go to the website, log in and do it that way.
If she's just trying to do something for free, then I
wanted to make sure that's as easy as possible, so
I let them know actually if you just go to the profile
section and just change your name by one letter,
that's all you have to do, it frees up the name.
So I told them that.
Blah blah blah.
Then she's like, "I'm going to help you," or whatever,
but she clearly doesn't.
And I tried then to get this moving, because otherwise
it was going to take a month, tried to offer them
money, which, you know, it could have
been a good strategy or a bad strategy,
I don't know. Sometimes it gets people to work on
it, like, actually put this as a higher priority than
just spacing out all day or whatever they do.
And sometimes it actually makes them think all of
a sudden that there's more money to be had.
So I only use it if I'm kind of desperate.
So I offered them $100, they said it looks fair enough.
And then it gets to this point where she says she got into
her account and finally figured out how to get into it.
That's great.
But then she just didn't do anything, and then completely
did a 180 and changed her mind, where she said
"I'd have to talk to my classmates before deactivating
it or anything," because, you know, clearly this free
account is being used by them, and that is something
that you have to discuss with all of your friends,
and come to a group decision about how you're not
going to use this class account anymore. Anyway,
Not impressed with Danish teenagers. After that
point, I just said this is clearly going nowhere,
and I went on my backups.
So my backups,
there were two, there's innovation hub and innovation
station. I like innovation station or hub, the hub
also was pretty good.
But if I'm searching by innovation hub, the person
who actually has the name right here is not active.
They have one post almost four years ago,
and they gave their website.
So that was great.
They also gave their names,
so it was pretty easy to look them up,
it's some group in Norway.
I messaged them, didn't really get a response.
I found their website, tried to message their
Contact Us, didn't get a response, so I moved on.
What I then did was I went to the one that
I liked, which was called innovation station.
And the account was somewhat active, it looked like
the last post was a year and a half ago, and it
looked like it was for a playpen area, like someone
made a station for kids to do crafts and stuff like that.
And so I messaged them through the account,
nothing happened, as it always seems to be the case, if it's not active, you're not going to get a response, so what I was able
to do from their account was figure out that the company
that made this account had another name, and
their name was SeeSawDo, and they're in South Africa,
and I kind of looked at their account, what I
figured out from their account
was that they do pop up stores.
Then what I did was I went to their website.
So I just went here to try to figure out if I could see
something about who they were, and use it as an angle to
get in contact with them. What I did was I read a
little bit about them, got an idea for how they work,
and then I just went to their Contact Us or the Meet
the Team section, that's what it was, and read a little
bit about them, figured out what exactly they're doing,
who were the co-founders, that was the key thing,
I figured out that this woman's name,
she was the main person who started it,
and then the other one seems like they came afterwards.
So then what I did was, OK, I figured out
this is their name, this is their last name.
I use a tool called Voila Norbert, which is a prospecting tool.
What you do is you plug in someone's first
name, last name, and the domain they're at,
and it tries to fetch their email for you.
What it does is it just guesses a bunch of different
combinations of e-mails, and it tries to send a
fake message to their server.
If the e-mail is not correct, it comes back wrong.
And if it comes back with the actual answer, then Norbert
says, "Hoorah, we found it." Turns out, we found it,
it was actually pretty easy.
It was exactly what you kind of would expect.
And you can grab photos of her and her location.
Great.
Then what I did is I just e-mailed her.
I wrote an email, and I'll attach this
in the resources, you can
see what I did, and I just messaged
her with the title "Help a stranger?"
She's doing a nonprofit that helps children learn,
so I figured that might be something that would resonate.
First rule of cold e-mail is that you always talk about
them first, don't ever talk about yourself from
the first e-mail, no one likes that from a cold e-mail,
no one wants to read it, and learn about this person
they don't care about or know.
So what I did was I talked about them and I said, I
complimented them, I said "I like what you're doing,"
and I think it was great that they're doing a positive
impact on children's education, which was true,
a really cool thing that they're doing, and some
of the pop up stuff is pretty awesome.
Then what I did was
I said, "Hey, I e-mailed you before," and "You
have this account, you haven't been using it."
And I just said, "This is what I'm using it for."
And I said I'm teaching it in a class.
She's in education,
that was kind of the connection there, and then I said,
"Hey, I teach a lot of people, that would be a perfect name
to showcase innovation in education,"
which is part of what I'm planning to do.
OK.
Then what I did was I tried to sweeten the deal by
offering, like, free promotion on the account, or some
way of like tying it into my course or something like
that, something like that to make it so that you're
not just going out of your way to do something for free.
Turns out this person is a nice person, and she just
offered to give it to me, because she said she's not using it.
We're both working towards the same goal, which is awesome.
And that was pretty much it.
So what ended up happening was
I just had to wait like three days,
then she got one of her colleagues, I don't know,
someone she works with to free it up for me,
and I was able to register.
And so now I have @innovationstation, that's what I'm going to
be using throughout this entire course through the follow along.
I'm pretty happy with it, it makes sense.
It's a station, you go, that's where we post innovation.
It's pretty catchy.
It looks good when it's written out, pretty thrilled with that.
OK.
So if you want to do the same thing, just do what I did.
Honestly, if you can't get in contact with them,
go to their website, use an e-mail hunting tool,
especially with Voila Norbert, you
can do a free trial, really useful.
And then just try to contact them. Personally, I'd suggest
though don't waste too much time on this, because
the name is important, but it's not worth
waiting six months to get the perfect name.
This took me like two weeks, I think, because I spent a lot
of time with that first one and those goddamn Danish girls.
I wish I didn't do that. Anyway,
OK. So that's what I did.
See you guys next lecture.